README.md, before:

# casci

rust cli to convert stuff to make ascii art

# casci - Interactive ASCII Frame Generator

`casci` is a high-performance, interactive tool for converting videos and image sequences into ASCII art frames.

## Features

- **Interactive Mode**: If you don't provide arguments, `casci` will prompt you for them.
- **Flexible Input**: Works with video files or directories of PNGs.
- **Performance**: Uses `ffmpeg` for fast frame extraction and parallel processing with Rayon for ASCII conversion.
- **Presets**: `--small` and `--large` flags for quick quality adjustments.
- **Non-interactive Mode**: Use `--default` to run without prompts, using default values.

## Installation

An `install.sh` script is provided to build and install `casci` to `/usr/local/bin`.

```bash
# Make sure you are in the casci directory
./install.sh
```

You will be prompted for your password as it uses `sudo` to copy the binary. The installer will also add a `casci-demo` function to your shell configuration file (`.zshrc` or `.bash_profile`).

**Important:** After installation, you must run `source ~/.zshrc` (or `source ~/.bash_profile`) or open a new terminal window to use the `casci-demo` command.

## Usage

### casci

#### Interactive

Run `casci` without any arguments to be guided through the process:

```bash
casci
```

It will first ask you to select an input file from the current directory, then prompt for the output directory, and finally for the quality settings.

#### With Arguments

You can also provide arguments directly:

```bash
# Basic usage with a video file
casci my_video.mp4 --out ./my_frames

# Using presets
casci my_video.mp4 --out ./my_frames --large

# Non-interactive mode (will fail if input is not provided)
casci my_video.mp4 --out ./my_frames --default
```

#### Options

- `[input]`: (Optional) The input video file or directory of images.
- `-o`, `--out`: (Optional) The output directory. Defaults to the current directory.
- `--columns`: (Optional) The width of the output ASCII art.
- `--fps`: (Optional) The frames per second to extract from a video.
- `--font-ratio`: (Optional) The aspect ratio of the font used for rendering.
- `--default`: Skips all prompts and uses default values for any missing arguments.
- `-s`, `--small`: Uses smaller default values for quality settings.
- `-l`, `--large`: Uses larger default values for quality settings.
- `-h`, `--help`: Shows the help message.
- `-V`, `--version`: Shows the version information.

### casci-demo

The `casci-demo` command is a companion to `casci` that helps you manage and view your ASCII art projects.

#### Importing a Project

To import a new project, provide the path to the directory containing your `frame_*.txt` files. This will copy the project into the viewer's directory and start the viewer.

```bash
casci-demo ./my_frames
```

#### Navigating to the Projects Directory

The `go` command allows you to quickly navigate to the directory where your demo projects are stored.

```bash
casci-demo go
```

#### Opening the Projects Directory

The `open` command will open the projects directory in your system's file explorer.

```bash
casci-demo open
```

# Test Image

./target/release/ascii-gen \
  --input ./some_frames_dir \
  --out ../public/sunset_hl \
  --font-ratio 0.7

# Test Video

./target/release/ascii-gen \
  --input ../input.webm \
  --out ../public/sunset_hl \
  --columns 800 \
  --fps 30 \
  --font-ratio 0.7

Commit message:

feature/video-lenght (#12)
* feature/video-lenght

README.md, after:

# casci

rust cli to convert stuff to make ascii art

# casci - Interactive ASCII Frame Generator

`casci` is a high-performance, interactive tool for converting videos and image sequences into ASCII art frames.

When converting a video, the output files will be placed in a directory named after the video file. For example, `casci my_video.mp4` will create a `my_video` directory.

## Features

- **Interactive Mode**: If you don't provide arguments, `casci` will prompt you for them.
- **Flexible Input**: Works with video files or directories of PNGs.
- **Performance**: Uses `ffmpeg` for fast frame extraction and parallel processing with Rayon for ASCII conversion.
- **Video Segments**: Specify start and end times to convert only a portion of a video.
- **Presets**: `--small` and `--large` flags for quick quality adjustments.
- **Non-interactive Mode**: Use `--default` to run without prompts, using default values.

## Installation

An `install.sh` script is provided to build and install `casci` to `/usr/local/bin`.

```bash
# Make sure you are in the casci directory
./install.sh
```

You will be prompted for your password as it uses `sudo` to copy the binary. The installer will also add a `casci-demo` function to your shell configuration file (`.zshrc` or `.bash_profile`).

**Important:** After installation, you must run `source ~/.zshrc` (or `source ~/.bash_profile`) or open a new terminal window to use the `casci-demo` command.

## Usage

### casci

#### Interactive

Run `casci` without any arguments to be guided through the process:

```bash
casci
```

It will first ask you to select an input file from the current directory, then prompt for the output directory, and finally for the quality settings.

#### With Arguments

You can also provide arguments directly:

```bash
# Basic usage with a video file
casci my_video.mp4 --out ./my_frames

# Using presets
casci my_video.mp4 --out ./my_frames --large

# Non-interactive mode (will fail if input is not provided)
casci my_video.mp4 --out ./my_frames --default

# Convert a 5-second clip starting at 10 seconds into the video
casci my_video.mp4 --start 00:00:10 --end 00:00:15
```

#### Options

- `[input]`: (Optional) The input video file or directory of images.
- `-o`, `--out`: (Optional) The output directory. Defaults to the current directory.
- `--columns`: (Optional) The width of the output ASCII art.
- `--fps`: (Optional) The frames per second to extract from a video.
- `--font-ratio`: (Optional) The aspect ratio of the font used for rendering.
- `--start`: (Optional) The start time for video conversion (e.g., `00:01:23.456` or `83.456`).
- `--end`: (Optional) The end time for video conversion.
- `--default`: Skips all prompts and uses default values for any missing arguments.
- `-s`, `--small`: Uses smaller default values for quality settings.
- `-l`, `--large`: Uses larger default values for quality settings.
- `-h`, `--help`: Shows the help message.
- `-V`, `--version`: Shows the version information.

### casci-demo

The `casci-demo` command is a companion to `casci` that helps you manage and view your ASCII art projects.

#### Importing a Project

To import a new project, provide the path to the directory containing your `frame_*.txt` files. This will copy the project into the viewer's directory and start the viewer.

```bash
casci-demo ./my_frames
```

#### Navigating to the Projects Directory

The `go` command allows you to quickly navigate to the directory where your demo projects are stored.

```bash
casci-demo go
```

#### Opening the Projects Directory

The `open` command will open the projects directory in your system's file explorer.

```bash
casci-demo open
```

# Test Image

./target/release/ascii-gen \
  --input ./some_frames_dir \
  --out ../public/sunset_hl \
  --font-ratio 0.7

# Test Video

./target/release/ascii-gen \
  --input ../input.webm \
  --out ../public/sunset_hl \
  --columns 800 \
  --fps 30 \
  --font-ratio 0.7
